## Qualification 2020 Preparation

`Last Modfified: 2019-10-20`

This blog update is to provide a simplistic overview of what is required for
qualification - more information can be found on the official
[mailing list](https://mailman.cc.gatech.edu/pipermail/robocup-humanoid/2019/001546.html).

### What Is Qualification?

The purpose of the qualification stage is to filter for the best teams to
participate in the competition. This is to ensure a basic level of competence,
so that games are interesting and teams are able to play. In order to compete
at the competition, teams must pass the qualification process.

At the competition itself, the robots are inspected to ensure compliance with
the rules - so even after qualification, participation is not guaranteed. As
well as checking the robot dimensions and limb manoeuvrability, robots must
also demonstrate the ability to get up from a fall in both the frontwards and
backwards orientations.

### How Do You Qualify?

Teams must provide several formal pieces of information in order to be
considered:

* **Team Data** - This consists of the basic team information, such as a name,
website and contact details.
* **Robot Video** - The video needs to demonstrate the robot finding a ball,
walking towards a ball, positioning for a kick, kicking towards a goal and
getting up from a fallen state.
* **Software Description** - This is a series of questions about the code,
specifically the walking, vision, localization, communication, behaviour and
contributions made.
* **Extended Abstract** - Two page of details about upgrades since the previous
year and what makes the robot team great.
* **Letter Of Commitement** - This is a signed letter by each team leader to
say they will do their duties to help the competition run smoothly.
* **Robot Specification** - One page overview of the robot hardware.

### Deadlines Announced

The technical committee have sent out the following deadlines:

* Submission system open: *November 18th, 2019*
* Deadline for submission: *December 2nd, 2019*
* Announcement of qualified teams: *January 20th, 2020*

### Plan Of Action

Over the next few months, we hope to provide some details in a series of blogs
about what our team gets up to leading to the qualification deadline.
