## General Update

`Last Modfified: 2021-12-19`

*What a year it has been!* In the months since we [last
updated](2021-05-16.html) you, a few things have happened for the team.

### Qualification

The [last qualification submission](2019-10-20.html) we submitted was in
2019^[*Yes, it really has been **2 years** since then!*] for an in-person
competition for 2020, Bordeaux, France. Encase you have been hiding under a
moon rock, that was *slightly* impacted by this *little-known* global pandemic
event, and the in-person event was postponed till 2021. It may not be too much
of a surprise to learn that in 2021 the situation could still not be described
as 'ideal', and unfortunately the in-person event was postponed by a year
again.

The intention now is that for 2022, the [competition be held in Bangkok,
Thailand](https://2022.robocup.org/) - from the 11th to 17th of July. As the
[website states](https://2022.robocup.org/covid-19-situation/), travelling
during these times is far from easy and it's yet to be seen how the travel
restrictions change in response to the new Omicron variant.

We are proud to announce our intention to collaborate with the [Bold
Hearts](https://robocup.herts.ac.uk/), a well-established team from the UK.
Dependant on travel restrictions, funding, personal commitments and some
unforeseen issues, we intend to join them in the 2022 competition (and of
course win!).

<iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/xdqDjWm3Hfg" allowfullscreen></iframe>

This somewhat addresses the issue of team members for each team and also
reduces the funding requirement for our team.

*Fingers crossed for the qualification process!*

### Projects

The following are some notes regarding ongoing projects, we intend to update
these in more detail at a later date.

#### Hardware

The [PWM motor project](2021-05-01.html) is currently on hold due to time
constraints, but we intend to pick up this investigation soon. The possibility
of a low-cost motor that we have a considerable amount of control over is quite
exciting, especially as existing options have left a lot to be desired in terms
of cost and performance!

We intend to continue using our humanoid platform for the purpose of research,
and as such will continue making upgrades. This includes continuing the
investigation into the [torso structure](2021-04-28.html). The intention is
that we can also use the lessons learned here in order to enhance the Bold
Heart's humanoid platform too.

#### Balance Engine

Something that we discussed in our original team description paper (TDP) for
the 2019 competition in Sydney Australia, was our intention "[to experiment
with specifying an end-target pose as an input ~~and~~ to a motion engine,
which computes a pose for the next time step](/bin/tdp-2019-b.pdf)". In
collaboration with the Bold Hearts we intend to implement the first step of
this through the use of a *balance engine*, a subset of the *motion engine*
problem space.

![Cartpole custom control algorithm](2021-12-19/scores.png)

Initial results based on the ['cartpole'
problem](https://gsurma.medium.com/cartpole-introduction-to-reinforcement-learning-ed0eb5b58288)
(essentially an inverse pendulum for testing non-linear control algorithms)
have allowed us to validate some of the core concepts for this idea. It's
looking promising and we will likely be looking at exploring the control of a
humanoid robot over Christmas.

#### Vision

We intend to implement an iteration of our [xYOLO CNN](/bin/xyolo-2019.pdf) in
ROS2 that also detects field lines, and various other objects. The intention is
that these can then play a large part in higher-level behaviour of the robot.

![xYOLO extended to predict other field objects](2021-12-19/predict.jpg)

There are still some nice ideas for a version 2 of this network, time
permitting we intend to investigate this space more. Since we published this
paper, there have been two iterations of the original YOLO v3 named v4 and v5 -
both of which feature some interesting work that can be applied to our network
also.

![Network structure of xYOLO](2021-12-19/xYOLO.png)

#### Localisation

We also look towards investigating the localisation approach somewhat more
starting in January now that we finally have features (lines, etc) that can be
used for the localisation process. There are still some open problems yet to be
solved, but we are relatively confident that we should be able to address these
in time for the competition.

### Final Notes

The Electric Sheep wish everybody well, a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year!

*Keep tuned for future updates!*
